INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

Internacionalni univerzitet u Sarajevu

Number: IUS-SENAT-11-3088/24

BOOK OF RULES

ON RECOGNITION OF PASSED COURSES AND OF THEIR EQUIVALENCE
AT THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

September 2024
Pursuant to the Article 61 (1) d), referring to the Article 109 and the Article(8) paragraph (1) item o) of the
Law on Higher Education (“Official Gazette of the Sarajevo Canton”, issue 36/22); and in compliance with
the Articles 111, 112 and 192 item (1) item 17) of the Statute of International University of Sarajevo, no.
IUS-SENAT-11-1720/2023 dated June 19", 2023, Senate of the International University of Sarajevo, on its

session held on September 30*, 2024, adopted the following

BOOK OF RULES

ON RECOGNITION OF PASSED COURSES AND THEIR EQUIVALENCE
AT THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

Subject of definition
Article 1

This Book of Rules regulates enrolment of students from other domestic or foreign universities into
the International University of Sarajevo (hereinafter referred to as: IUS) and procedure for recognizing
courses passed at those universities for the purpose of exempting students from the requirements to pass
those courses at IUS. Book of Rules also stipulates procedure of recognition of courses passed at IUS for
students who are transferring from one study program to another study program within IUS, and
recognition of the ECTS credit points to individuals who acquired the Master of Arts/Science title in

accordance with the system preceding to the Bologna system.

Enrollment through a transfer and course equivalency procedure [external transfer]

Article 2
Students who have successfully completed part of their study program at another domestic or
foreign institutions of higher education, are eligible to apply for enrollment into the same or similar study
program at IUS and to request recognition of their passed courses and earned ECTS credits to the IUS,
provided that ECTS credits were earned in courses whose contents are not significantly different from the
contents of the courses studied within relevant study program at IUS; or whose level, type of the acquired
knowledge (learning outcomes) and competences do not differ substantially from the level, type of

knowledge, and competences achieved through the relevant courses, or group of courses at IUS.
Article 3
Application for enrollment through transfer and recognition of ECTS credits is submitted to the
Student Affairs Office, accompanied by the following documents:
1. Student transcript - original
2. | Documents which demonstrate:
a) name of the faculty at which ECTS credits have been earned, and

b) names and contents of the courses, as well as number of the earned ECTS credits.

Application for enrollment through transfer must be submitted at least 30 days prior to registration
of courses in the semester in which a student is enrolling and, if received after the deadline, the Student
Affairs Office officially categorizes it [as late] and processes it for enrolment into the subsequent semester.

The Student Affairs Office checks if applications are formally and legally completed and submitted
on time, and if yes, it forwards applications to the respective faculty secretary within two days the most.

Applications which are not formally and legally complete, Student Affairs Office returns to the
student with explanation on how to correct its deficiencies, deadline for submitting corrected application
and semester in which enrolment can be done.

If a student fails to submit the corrected application by the deadline, the Student Affairs Office will
reject the application and send official note [to that fact] to the student.

It is a student’s responsibility to submit formally and legally complete applications, and it’s
considered that students must be aware of possible delays if additional documents are needed to process
their applications.

If the application is not processed by the beginning of the course registration period, it will be
processed for the next semester.

Article 4

The faculty secretary is responsible for emailing a scanned copy of the application and all supporting
documents to the dean on the same day or the next day at the latest, and to safeguard receiving application
and all its supporting documents throughout the duration of the application process.

At the end of the application process, the faculty secretary transfers the entire file to the Student

Affairs Office and to the Archive.
Article 5

Within two days from receiving the application, dean of respective faculty appoints, in consultation
with the program coordinator, Commission for conducting procedure of recognition and equivalence
[hereinafter referred to as: the Commission], comprising of three members whose fields of academic
appointments are in dominant part covering areas and disciplines of the study program [the student would
like to enroll in].

For the courses passed at other higher education institutions, which belong to scientific/artistic
fields other than those of the Commission members, Commission will consult with the IUS academic staff

which possess relevant appointments in those fields.

Article 6
Within five days [from its appointment], the Commission will prepare a report including the
following elements:

1. _List of courses passed during previous studies, and which are eligible to be transferred [to US]

2. Statement establishing the fact that learning outcomes [achieved by the passed courses] do
not [significantly] differ from the level and type of knowledge, skills and competences
achieved in the courses for which the recognition was applied for.

3. Specification of student’s obligation which must be completed in order to complete
requirements of the program in subject.

4. Signatures of all Commission members.

In case the Commission establishes that the student [during his previous studies] acquired
knowledge, skills and competencies through particular course whose content is not comparable to the
content of [any] course in the curriculum of the study program [enrolling in], but whose learning outcomes
are complementary to the general knowledge, skills and competencies [of the study program], the
Commission can recognize particular course, or multiples of them [as generic ones] which belong to a

certain group of courses, e.g. Free Elective, Program Elective or University Elective.

The template for the Commission report is provided in the Addendum 1 to this Book of Rule and it

constitutes its integral part.
Article 7

When determining the list of courses which students have passed, the Commission will consider
whether the course is conditionally passed and when it is passed.

Course is conditionally passed if it is passed on the institution which has minimum grade point
average requirement for completing a study program and its passing grade is below that minimum grade
point average.

In case recognition is sought for the conditionally passed course or course which was passed over
10 years ago, Commission may decline to recognize that course if it concludes that student did not acquire
sufficient knowledge, skills or competencies. This assessment will consider the student’s overall academic
success during his/her studies, as well as the learning outcomes of those courses in alignment with current
knowledge in the relevant field.

In the process of establishing academic obligation of a student [that he/she must fulfill in order to
graduate from a particular study program], the Commission may exempt the student from the obligation
to pass all or some of the university courses - if the student transferred 60 or more ECTS credits and if this
option is prescribed in the curriculum of the study program [student is enrolling in]. In this situation, the

student earns missing ECTS credits by passing faculty and program elective courses.

Article 8

In case the Commission, based on the available documents, cannot establish the level and type of
knowledge, skills and competences [the student achieved in passed course], the Commission will request
the student to submit additional documents within 10 days.

After the deadline for delivering additional documents, or two days following the receipt of
necessary documentation, the Commission prepares and submits a report to the dean. The dean must then
include the submitted report for the next faculty council meeting.

Besides elements referred to in Article 6, the Commission’s report shall propose either:

1. to approve the application in full,
2. to partially approve the application, or
2. to reject the application.
In its report, the Commission shall provide a detailed argumentation and conclusions upon which

the recommendation is submitted to the faculty council.
Article 9

Having received the Commission’s report referred to in the preceding article, the faculty council
decides on it, and together with the report submits its decision to the dean of the faculty, who issues a
formal decision within two days.

Decision of the dean must contain at least names of the courses and value ECTS credits recognized
[from the other institution of higher education] and names of the IUS courses and a number of ECTS credits
which are equivalent to the courses being transferred.

The decision of the dean can declare the commission’s report as its integral part and point to the

commission’s report for information listed in article 6.

Article 10

In case that there is an identical application for the recognition of the previously passed courses,
for which a decision had been previously made, dean of a faculty, having established that the status of the
higher education institution is not changed, may decide identical application in the same manner as it was
done in the previous case, based on the Commission's report and faculty council's decision from the
previous application.

Identical application means the application, which was submitted for the recognition of the course,
passed at the same university for the purpose of exempting the student from attending the same course
at IUS.

Article 11
The Student Affairs Office maintains the Registry of Recognized Courses which includes the
following data:
1. Name of the institution where the course is passed,
2. Course name and course code,
3. Number and date of original IUS decision for recognition, and
4

Course code and course name of the equivalent course at IUS.

Article 12
Regardless of the number of transferred courses from other institutions of higher education, or
from another study program at IUS, a student is entitled to IUS diploma on completion of a study cycle

under condition that he/she accrues the following minimum number of ECTS credit points at IUS:
1. A minimum of 120 ECTS credits for first study cycle (including graduation thesis/project, if
required) for all students except international Turkish students.

2. A minimum of 170 ECTS credits for first study cycle (including graduation thesis/project, if
required) for international Turkish students.

3. Aminimum of 42 ECTS credits for second study cycle, including master thesis/project.

4, Aminimum of 120 ECTS credits for third study cycle, which refers to Doctoral thesis.

The Senate keeps the right to exempt a student from provisions related to minimum number of

ECTS credit points in case of specific situations.

Changing study program within IUS [internal transfer]

Article 13
Students can transfer from one study Program to another program only if student quota for
admission [through transfer] to another program has not been met.
Transfer quota for each study program can be determined by the Senate before the beginning of
academic year considering that the total number of enrolled students [in the first year] does not exceed

total quota by the competent Ministry.

Article 14

Students can change study programs twice during their study at IUS.

Procedure of internal transfer does not automatically imply that all passed courses will be
transferred, but only those courses that are relevant to the study program to which student is transferring
to.

Article 15

Request for a change of the study program must be submitted to the Student Affairs Office no later
than seven days before the registration period.

The student transcript must accompany the request.

The student’s scholarship will be revised and communicated to the student, and if he/she accepts
the scholarship terms, the request is submitted to the relevant study program.

The study program evaluates the courses passed and matches them with equivalent courses in their

curriculum where the student may transfer fewer ECTS than initially accrued.
With the course transferred from IUS, the grade is transferred and affects the student's CGPA, while
the number of achieved credits is transferred following the ECTS rules and the value of corresponding
courses in the new program.

Article 16
If more applications for transfer is received then student quota for that program allows, dean

creates rang list based on the students Cumulative Grade per Average (CGPA).

Article 17
The dean of the respective faculty submits a request to the program coordinator of the study program
in which student is transferring [in case it is submitted by undergraduate student], or to the Commission
[formed by dean] in accordance with Article 5 of this Book of Rules [in case it is submitted by the graduate
students].
Article 18
Within five days from receiving request for transfer, program coordinator [or the Commission]
Prepares and submits report [to the dean] in which it lists courses that student passed during previous
study program and lists courses that are transferred [as equivalent] for the purpose of continuing studies
on the transferred study program.
Article 19
The Commission referred to in the previous article ought to verify that student possess adequate
qualification for transferring into second cycle or third cycle study program as prescribed by relevant study
program curriculum.
Article 20
After receiving report by the Program coordinator [or Commission], dean issues a decision on
recognition and transfer of courses, grades, ECTS credits, specification of student’s obligation [which need
to be fulfilled in order to graduate], and specific semester of the study program in which student enrolls at
IUS.
The decision of the dean can declare the report as its integral part and point to its information listed

in article 18.
Recognition of the ECTS credits to individuals who acquired the Master of Arts/Science title in

accordance with the system preceding the Bologna system

Article 21

The Candidates who acquired scientific title of Master of Science/Arts in accordance with the
principles which were in use prior to the introduction of the Bologna system in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
and who are applying for third cycle of studies at IUS, can submit a request for recognition of ECTS credit
points based on previously acquired title of Master of Science/Arts up to the maximum of 60 ECTS credit
points.

In the sense of the previous paragraph, the recognition will not apply in case where the candidate
transfers from a structurally or scientifically different program, as assessed by the commission in each
specific case.

Article 22
The request referred to in the Previous article must be submitted to the Student Affairs Office along
with the following original documents or certified copies:
1. Diploma/ certificate for acquired qualification of Master of Science/Arts,
2. Transcript from the master studies,
3. Curriculum and syllabi of the finished master studies program.
Request for recognition of ECTS points must be submitted 15 days before the course

registration period of the semester in which enrolment to PhD studies is made.

Article 23
Having received the request, the Dean of the faculty shall appoint a Commission consisting of

members of the academic staff from the study program where student is enrolling in.

Article 24
The Commission for conducting the recognition of ECTS study credits is required to establish and
prepare a written report on the following:
1. Whether the title of Master of Science/Arts has been acquired according to regulations
which had been in force prior to the implementation of the Bologna educational system in

Bosnian and Herzegovina.
2. Whether the student acquired a sufficient level of scientific knowledge and competencies
which would justify the request for recognition of ECTS credit points on his/her studies at the
third cycle study program,
3. | Whether the candidate transfers from a structurally or scientifically similar program,
4. Number of ECTS study points that can be recognized for continuation of study at the third
cycle and remaining obligations that student has after conduction of the procedure for
recognition of ECTS credits.
Article 25
The Commission must submit to the Dean a written report [on established facts with its proposal]
and the dean must include it on the agenda of the next Faculty Council meeting.
Having received the report referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Faculty Council reviews the
report and decides on it.

Faculty council forwards its decision and report to Dean, who issue decision [within five days].

Article 26
If ECTS credit points are recognized, dean’s decision from the preceding Article includes the
following elements:
1. Total of recognized ECTS study points for continuing study at the third cycle,
2. Designation of the semester and year of study at IUS, in which the student can enroll
according to conducted procedure of recognition,

3. The rights and obligations in the further study at the third cycle.

Transitional and final provisions
Article 27
In the case of recognizing foreign international qualifications or recognizing part of studies
completed abroad, the recognition procedure is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Book
of Rules on Recognition of Foreign Higher Education Qualifications, with the obligation of the competent
academic commissions to fully adhere to the principles of recognition from the Lisbon Convention, as well

as the principles of equivalence from this Book of Rules.

Article 28
The provisions of this Book of Rules do not apply to students who attend teaching activities

10
organized as joint, interdisciplinary, or multidisciplinary studies in cooperation with domestic or foreign
institutions of higher education, in which case the transfers are regulated by the agreement on joint
studies.
Article 29
In case the student is not satisfied with the decision made by the dean, the student may submit an

appeal to the faculty council within 15 days from the date of the receipt of the decision.

Article 30
Amendments and additions to the Book of Rules will be carried out in the same manner and
procedure for adoption of this Book of Rules.
Article 31
This Book of Rules repeals the previous Book of Rules, No. IUS-SENAT-11-2756/2017 dated
September 29', 2017.
In a case where the recognition procedure has begun before the official announcement of these

Rules, the same will be completed complying with the provisions of the previous Book of Rules.

Article 32

This Book of Rules enters into force by the date of its public announcement [as confirmed below].

CONFIRMATION ON THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE BOOK OF RULES
A copy of this Book of Rules was posted on the noticeboard at the International University of Sarajevo on

December 1%, 2024, at 9 o’clock;

A copy of this Book of Rules was published by posting it on the International University of Sarajevo website

on December 15, 2024, at 9 o’clock.

11
ADDENDUM 1

To The Office of the Dean of

Date:

of faculty/department at the

(student name) studied for 6 semesters in the

He/she has been accepted to the

(name

(name of university).

(name of study program) at our university.

The Transfer Committee studied his/her transcript and course descriptions carefully and proposes the

following transfer of credits:

Table of Courses, Credits, and Grades Together with the Equivalent Courses in our Program

Course Taken at (IBU) Grade andEquivalent CourselCredits atiNotes
Credits at ??? in our Program lus
—— —
Basic Design 8, B (ARCH 101 6 2 credits less here
— —__| te
Graphic Communication 4,D |ARCH 208 6 2 credits more here
L tl
Introduction to Architecture 5, D IARCH 100 ie 2 courses correspond
Architectural design | 8, D to one course here
—
Statics and Strength of Materials |5, B IARCH 204 4 1 credit less here
| | | |
Building Construction Technology, A ARCH 106 6
|
—
Theory of Structures 6, B o£ There is no similar
L {_ Dias — =
Building Materials 4,C ARCH 311 4
— |
Building Element Design 4,D IARCH 210 4 3 courses correspond
Steel Structures 5,B to one course here
Reinforced Concrete Structures 5, D
__| | _|
History of Art and Architecture | 5,C IARCH102 6 1 credit more here
_t =
Architectural Design II 7, D ARCH 201 12 5 credits more here
Architectural Design III 7; BD: JARCH202 Li
Architectural Design IV 5, D
Building Construction Technology|5, C \ARCH312 4 1 credit less here

12
Responsibility

Faculty Elective II

History of Art and Architecture II |5, C pce 217 6 1 credit more here
Environmental Control Studio \4,C ARCH 307 4 l
City Planning and Urban Design |5,C JARCH 302 le 1 credit more here
Geometry and the Elements in 5, D - - There is no similar
Design course
(Advanced Measuring Methods inj5, B [- + here is no similar
Architecture | [_ course
Building Construction|5, A rec 403 4 1 credit less here
Management and Economics
— 7 We
Design Methods 5, B I- - There is no similar
_| ae
Lighting in Architecture 5, C ARCH 411 7 lt credit less here
Program Elective | |
Architectural Design V 5, C IARCH304 ale 7 credits more here |
__| | ——
Senior Design Project 5, C JARCH 355 4 1 credit less here
Program Elective II
— | ee |
Computer Literature and Skills 3,A E - There is no similar
| |
Advanced Reading and Writing Il Ie, B MAN 101 4 2 credits less here
——— 4
Advanced Reading and Writing! |6, B ENG 101 4 2 credits less here
{| _| __|
fimdemiantat of Management, C ECON 101 6 lg credits less here
Introduction to Business 5, A
| af { ——
Calculus | 7, A MATH 101 6 1 credit less here
| —- a 1:
Entrepreneurship 5, B MAN 303 6 1 credit more here
Faculty Elective |
Leadership and Corporatel5, B “|MAN 345 6 1 credit more here |

TOTAL (34 courses)

1

—|— —f
f180 credits TOTAL (24 courses) [142 credits

4, The student will be like an irregular junior.

2. His/her academic advisor will be

(name of academic advisor) in our program.

He/she will be exempted from 24 courses and will have transferred 142 credits. To graduate from our

program, he/she will need to take 17 more courses, and complete Work Placement with a total credit of

13
98.

3. He/she will also have to finish Work Placement/Internship for sophomore and junior years (6

credits).

4. He/she will have to pass the following courses from each year:

Freshman: HUM101, SPS103, BOS101 and BOS102 (4 courses - 16 cr.)

Sophomore: ARCH203, ARCH209, ARCH211 and ARCH216 (4 courses - 16 cr.)
Junior: — ARCH303, ARCH308 and 2 Program Electives (4 courses - 24 cr.)

Senior: _ARCH401, ARCH402, ARCH405, ARCH406 and ARCH408 (5 courses - 36 cr.)

Transfer Committee members:

Title, name and surname of committee chair

Title, name and surname of committee member

Title, name and surname of committee member

14