Get et ="

ender
Equality INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO.
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEWU

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
Number: IUS-REC-01- 830 /19
Sarajevo, 27.03.2019.

EXIT INTERVIEW POLICY AT THE INTERNATIONAL
UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
Systemic

Action for

Gender
INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO.

Equality
INTERNACIONALNT UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Name of Policy Interim - Exit Survey and Interviews Policy

Description of Policy ; _. ;
an exit survey and an exit interview at TUS.

University wide

Specific (outline location, campus, organisational unit etc.)

Policy applies to

Policy Status New Policy Revision of Existing Policy

Approval Authority Rector

Responsible Office Manager of Human Resources Office

Systemic
Action for
Gender .
Equality INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEWU

Table of Contents

AA 4M SS Pe

Background [nformation ............ccccscssessesscesseesesceeecessesesseeseessecseseeesseesseeseecerseeseeesseeseesee aes 2
POLICY SIAC ssrsssscnrenssonsserscrremererensveneeeerenmnime anercmmamemmeTmeNmTEEETNMMNTEEEEE 2
Policy Pur P80 sss cscsssanssseciasscaanincninincninsnnnanninsiania ins sash inti teen siaaasatunsnetaaniabata date th Tata ae 2
Application Of POLICY ...s..ccccisseasesesesevesserssssonssesesssessevsesssserssesssvesssensaoesvessesssnsiesaesescestbeseiamens 2
Procedures.. wad
Revisions made 0 this Policy ..........cscsssesenseressensessssessesseeceseesensseeenessesseesenrsecseeseesesesee wees 3
BUPthe® ASSISCATICE rasecasscccssssnsvenesaonstenssexnectavnasunconsesnsesesuastesasesscieetenscegecasvsestesssenocesexensnaesitioned 4

1. Background Information

International University of Sarajevo is committed to attracting and retaining quality academic
and Professional Staff in order to implement its Mission and achieve its strategic goals. As a
consequence, the University places a very high priority on the overall quality of working-life
and the overall employment experience, with a particular emphasis on quality people
management practices. These priorities are reflected in a variety of ways, including structured
selection, comprehensive induction processes, the provision of staff learning and development
opportunities, managing performance processes including feedback and career development,
the availability of work and life-balance arrangements intended to assist staff members work in
ways which best fit their personal and International University of Sarajevo’s needs, and
generous employment conditions.

2. Policy Statement

The University is seeking to monitor staff satisfaction levels with work at the University and
intends to do so in a number of ways. It is recognized that staff members who leave the
University are in a position to provide valuable perspectives on their overall working
experience at the University.

3. Policy Purpose

The purpose of this policy is to inform staff of the processes and procedures involved when
participating in the Staff Exit Survey and interview process.

4. Application of Policy

This policy applies to all continuing and fixed-term staff of the University.
S

Systemic
Action for
Gender

Equality INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO.

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Feedback is being sought from staff members who are leaving the University. This

feedback will be sought in the first instance using an online Staff Exit Survey. Exit
Systemic
Action for
Gender ~

Equality INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Interviews are available to staff members who nominate to take up such an

opportunity.

Participation in the Staff Exit Survey is voluntary. The results will be entirely confidential and
may be used to monitor staff satisfaction with the working experience at [US and identify key
issues and ways in which the quality of the working experience might be improved for the
benefit of the institution as a whole and its intent to provide working life quality.

a.

On receipt of authorised advice regarding cessation of employment from a staff
member or at the confirmation of a fixed-term contract expiry, the Manager of Human
Resource Office will initiate a Staff Exit Survey.

The staff member will receive an email inviting the completion of the Staff Exit
Survey.
Where the staff member also nominates to take part in an Exit Interview, Manager of

Human Resource Office will contact the staff member within two working days of
nomination and organise a time to conduct the Staff Exit Survey.

The Manager of Human Resource Office will document the Exit Interview and forward a
report to the Rector who will discuss the report with the Manager ofthe employee’s
department/faculty.

Human Resources will undertake half yearly reviews and report annually to Rector
identifying key staff issues and possible ways in which the quality of working life at
University might be improved.

Confidentiality will be maintained with respect to all information collected via the Staff
Exit Survey. There will be full security of given data, either through channels of survey or
interviews, electronically or hard copy both. All information will be marked as top business
secret. If staff member uses interview opportunity, he/she will start an interview with the
giving consent on disclosure of information to internal immediate superiors of University.
Any closure of data will be strictly penalized and considered as severe breach of working
duties at University.

In instances where the Staff Exit Survey and/or Exit Interview raise significant
matters this will be referred immediately to the Manager of Human Resources.

The operation of the policy and procedure will be monitored annually.

6. Revisions made to this policy

The University may make changes to this policy from time to time to improve the
effectiveness of its operation. In this regard, any staff member who wishes to make any
comments about this policy may forward their suggestions to Human Resources.
Systemic
Action for
Gender
Equality

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Example of questions:

Why Did You Start Looking For Another Job?

The answers you get to this question will be as unique and the individuals who give them.
That’s because everyone starts looking to switch jobs for different reasons. The important
insight comes over time when you start to detect common themes in the answers.

Why Are You Leaving?

Some may see these first two questions as the same, but they’re actually very different.
Your employee may have started looking to switch jobs for one reason. But she may have
made the final decision for a host of other reasons. These two questions help you
determine everything that prompted her to leave—from initial dissatisfaction to the final
straw that broke the camel’s back.

What Does Your New Position Offer That Influenced Your Decision To Leave?

The answer to this question will indicate the specifics of where your company is lacking.
It could be company culture. It could be pay or benefits. It could be lack of flexibility. It
could be any number of things. The important thing to remember is that the information
the outgoing employee provides can be used to pick up the slack where your company
has fallen short.

What Could We Have Done Better?

Again, this may seem similar to question three, but the answer explores a different side of
the issue. Say, for example, that an employee responded to question three with, “‘more
professional development opportunities.” That answer insinuates that the number of
opportunities is important. But when asked question number four, he may offer this
advice: “Actively promote professional development and motivate employees to reach
out.” So maybe it’s not the number of opportunities you offer, but the promotion of those
opportunities that is the real key. Asking both questions in tandem can reveal these finer
points.

Would You Ever Consider Returning To This Company?

Be prepared for a yes or no answer to this question, but probe a little deeper by asking a
follow-up question like, “What circumstances would change your mind?” View those
answers as a way to improve retention and keep key positions filled.

What Could We Have Done to Keep You Here?
This question will often tease out more reasons why the employee felt dissatisfied with
her job and started looking for another. Because you’re are asking a very direct question,
Systemic
Action for
Gender
Equality

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

you may get a series of direct answers. But that can be very valuable. Answers like more
pay, more benefits, more advancement can reveal a lot when you correlate them with
the employee’s term at your company. If she received regular raises but was still
dissatisfied with her pay, maybe the raises need to be more frequent.

10.

11.

12.

Were You Comfortable Talking to Your Manager?

The unique thing about this question is that it reveals details about two individuals—the
outgoing employee and the manager. First and foremost, you can use the information you
glean from the employee’s answer to improve the performance and development of the
manager who still works for your company. Second, you can use the information to help
in finding a new employee for the team.

What Things Could Your Manager Have Done Better?

Questions four and six deal more with the company as a whole. Question eight helps you
dig into the specific things the employee’s manager could have done better. This question
helps you peel back the layers to see what’s going on in the trenches.

Did You Feel Like a Valuable Part of The Company?

Questions four and six deal more with the company as a whole. Question eight helps you
dig into the specific things the employee’s manager could have done better. This question
helps you peel back the layers to see what’s going on in the trenches.

Did You Have All the Tools and Training You Needed to Succeed At Your Job?
You don’t often see what goes on

a daily basis in other parts of your company, just like other employees don’t see what
goes on in your job. This question helps you see where you can improve the workplace
environment (e.g., tools, training, resources, work conditions, etc.) that is so important to
continued success.

Do You Feel Your Job Description Changed Since You Were Hired? How?

The way we work is constantly in flux, so it should come as no surprise if an employee
indicates that his job changed while he worked at your company. Take the information
this employee gives and use it to update the job description before starting the hiring
process. That way, you can be sure you are looking for the right skills to fill the vacant
position.

What Qualities Do You Think We Should Look for In Your Replacement?
Systemic
Action for
Gender
Equality

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

Question eleven dealt with skills. Question twelve deals with qualities. Yes, the job may
have changed from one that focused on phone communication to one that focused on
written communication (a skills-based change). But it also may have changed in regards
to some of the softer qualities like patience, people skills, and organization. Asking the
outgoing employee what qualities you should look for in her replacement is an excellent
indication of this change.

What Was the Best Part of Your Job?

Like question one, the answers you get to this question will be as varied as your
employee’s personalities. But, over time, you'll start to notice similar answers pop up
again and again. Take that information and promote these good aspects of the job.

What Was Your Best Day on The Job Like?

The heart of this question is employee engagement. You want to discern what an
employee in this position likes and what makes him feel successful. Use the information
he gives you to help you answer this question: “Is there a way to make more days like the

best day?”

What Was Your Worst Day on The Job Like?

This question is the mirror image of question fourteen but helps you see where your
company may be lacking in terms of employee engagement. Again, use the answers you
get to help you determine if there’s a way to make less days like the worst day.

How Would You Improve Employee Morale?

Just hours ago, this employee was in the thick of things. He was dealing with company
culture and being influenced by others’ morale first-hand. Living through that on a day-
to-day basis gives him unique insight into how that morale and culture can be improved.
This is the time to find out what he thinks.

Did You Have, Or Were You Given, Clear Goals And Objectives?

If the answer is yes, find out where those goals came from and promote the process. If the
answer is no, make a change so that employees see that their work is part of a larger
purpose and that they’re not just an unimportant cog in the machine.

. What Would You Change About Your Job?

The answer to this question can help you see whether or not you need to change this
particular position before you hire someone else. If the job itself caused the employee to
Systemic
Action for
Gender
Equality

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNE UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

19.

20.

leave, you may be hiring someone into a volatile position. Make the position better and
you avoid high turnover in the future.

Would You Recommend Our Company to A Friend Looking for A Job?

If at all possible, you want the answer to this question to be yes. It indicates the success
of the company as a whole. The outgoing employee may be dissatisfied with small
aspects of her job, but you want her to talk positively about the company. If she wouldn’t
recommend your company to her friend, find out why and then fix it.

Do You Have Any Other Issues or Comments You’d Like to Address?

This is a very open-ended question, so it invites the employee to comment on topics that
may not have been addressed in the other questions. It’s also potentially volatile in that it
can reveal things you weren’t aware of and may not want to hear. But those things you
weren’t aware of can fester and spread and infect your employees’ writ large, not just a
select few. Better to get it out in the open now so you can make the necessary changes.