:

a

KK
%

s

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

= RECTOR: -

Protocol no.: |US-REC-01-174/2022
Date: January aa 2022, Sarajevo

Pursuant to Article 131 of the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of Sarajevo Canton", No.

33/17, 35/20, 40/20 and 39/21), the Rector of the International University of Sarajevo, adopts the
following

INSTRUCTION
on the establishment and maintenance of an electronic register of curricula and syllabuses

Article 1
(Subject of instruction)

This Instruction defines the procedure for establishing an electronic register as well as the
obligation to maintain, update and store valid curricula and syllabi in the semester.

Article 2
(Electronic register of curricula and syllabi)

(1) The University shall establish and continuously edit the electronic register of curricula and
syllabi, which shall be stored and updated on a semester basis on the central university
“Microsoft OneDrive Cloud Storage” (hereinafter: the central folder).

(2) It is hereby determined that the university, per request of interested persons, can print the

excerpts from the electronic register, and issue them directly from the folder as referred to in
paragraph (1).

(3) Any excerpt from the curriculum/syllabus register, which is properly stored and printed from
the central file, will be considered an official document with the certification and seal of the
university.

Article 3
(Obligations of the Director of the University IT Center)

(1) The Director of the University IT Center (hereinafter: the Director) takes care of the continuity
of availability and the required capacity of the central folder.

(2) The Director is obliged to provide the required instructions and technical clarifications to all
participants in the process from this Instruction in a timely manner.

(3) Within 7 days from the day of adoption of this Instruction, the director submits for approval to
the Rector a proposal of the data access scheme by individual participants in the process, which

specifies the optimal visibility limits or possibilities for changes in the register by phases (entry,
storage, archiving).

GRIVERSSS
LSID)
7 A

SITUS’

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

wD

\
As

(4) Upon the proposal referred to in the paragraph (3), the Rector shall give approval by signing, in
which case the approval shall form an integral part of the Instruction.

Article 4
(Entering data into the Register)

(1) The Faculty Secretary is obliged to perform manual download in PDF format of all
curricula/syllabuses published on the university platform E-campus
(https://ecampus.ius.edu.ba).

(2) After the storage as referred to in paragraph (1), the faculty secretary will make an official note
of any observed incompleteness of the curriculum/syllabus sections, about which a written
information to the respective dean and rector is forwarded.

(3) The method of marking the stored curricula/syllabuses as well as the total number of them is
coordinated by the secretary with other secretaries (and webmaster), after which they are
forwarded to the central folder, using visibility options in accordance with the approved scheme
from Article 3, paragraph (4) of this Instruction.

(4) After storing all curricula/syllabi on a central folder, the secretaries forward the information to
the Deputy Secretary General for Legal Affairs, the Quality Assurance Office, the Student Affairs
Office manager, the Director of the University IT Center and the University Archive.

Article 5
(Electronic archiving)

(1) The archivist is obliged to take care of the timely receipt and electronic archiving of data from
the register on the central folder.

(2) Within 30 days from the day of storage by the secretary of the faculty, the archivist conducts
the final procedure of data storage on hard disk, DVD or other appropriate medium (according
to the written instructions of the director), enters the same in the archive book and assigns
record number.

(3) In case of non-fulfillment of storage and archiving obligations for any reason, the archivist shall
first try to eliminate possible reasons with the competent faculty secretary or director, and in
case of failure within 15 days, he is obliged to send written information to the Secretary General
and to the competent vice-rector, with a written explanation.The Secretary General and the
competent vice-rector shall order all necessary measures for the successful storage of the
curriculum/syllabus and the completion of archiving.

(4) Archiving shall be deemed to have been completed after a written email from the archivist to
the Secretary General and the competent Deputy Secretary General on the completion of the
procedure for storing data in the curriculum and syllabus register.

Ss

U

wae

A,
4,
x

;

\)

TERN,

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Article 6
(Transition period)
(1) This Instruction is adopted until the final establishment of procedures that will regulate the
direct storage, transfer and archiving of curricula/syllabuses via a synchronized module (from E-
campus to central folder), without obligation to store by the faculty secretary.

(2) The implementation of storage and archiving referred to in paragraph (1) shall be regulated by a
special act.

Article 7
(Responsibilty of participants)

Any non-compliance with the provisions and deadlines from this Instruction is considered a serious
violation of work discipline.

Article 8
(Entry into force)

The instruction enters into force on the day of its adoption.

Prof. dr Ahm Yildirim

Sy

To be delivered:

1x Faculties

1x Faculty secretaries
1x QA Office

1x SAO

1x IT Center

1xa/a