a

Pane

STERNA

f

un

f

@

y

27

NY

)

ey.

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

Date: April 27, 2018
Document: IUS-SENAT-11-965/2018

In accordance with the Article 130 of the Law on Higher Education (“Official Gazette of Sarajevo
Canton”, No. 33/17), Senate of the International University of Sarajevo on its session held on April 27,
2018 adopted the following

PRACTICAL TRAINING/INTERNSHIP RULES AND REGULATION

Article 1
(Introduction)

This document defines general information in regards to practical training/internship activity and
regulates procedures for fulfilling internship requirement, as an integral part of curriculum of each
study program. :

Practical training/internship period is defined as student’s study through work education created by
an employer, which provides mentoring and training in line with the individual student-intern’s
study program and career goals.

Practical training/internship can be performed in companies, non-government organizations,
government offices, institutes, medical facilities, or any other entities that can provide the student
with the experience and potential to achieve the learning outcomes set in the syllabus for that
practical training /internship course.

Article 2
(General internship requirements)

Within the limits listed below, students are free to choose where they wish to do an internship.
Internship position must meet the following requirements:

e Must offer opportunity to participate in the work process.
e Must offer opportunity to perform work at the level of the study program.

e Must offer opportunity for the student to perform work related to the knowledge and/or
skills acquired during his/her study.

e Must give student the opportunity to reflect on the internship and to write an internship
report.

Article 3
(Duration of internship)

All study programs require that students enrolled at IUS must perform an internship. It is
recommended that student do an internship at the beginning of the third academic year. Students
are expected to apply for internship in advance so they can get accepted for their internship by a
particular organization and complete it in due time. The duration of practical training/internship is
30 days (25 working days) for all study programs of the University and the practical
training/internship is evaluated as 6 ECTS.

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

However, this is the minimum number of working days required and it can be more than 25 working
days if the student chooses to do so. Internship period can be divided into separate sessions that
may not be fewer than 10 days and different sessions may be completed in different organizations.

For each session, a separate report will be prepared. Practical training/internship must be completed
before graduation.

Article 4
(Finding an internship)

Each student should begin planning his/her internship early in his/her study. It is preferred that a
student begin preparing for his/her internship at least six months in advance in order to leave
enough room in his/her study schedule, as it is not always possible to do an internship during his/her
preferred period. However, internship in summer period may be the best solution for the student.

All forms related to Practical training/internship activities are accessible through IUS website (under
the Career Center section - Documents). During the process of finding internship position or any
other matter related to internship, student can consult the staff at the Career Center. Students who
need help finding an internship position can fill in the Student Internship Application Form and
submit it to the Career Center.

Any requests by an organization for official documents in order to provide practical
training/internship have to be forwarded to the Career Center. If needed, reference letters can be
provided by the academic advisor or professors.

Article 5
(Academic advisor for internship)

Academic advisor for internship is an |US academic staff member appointed by the Dean of the
Faculty. The academic advisor is responsible for guiding, checking documents and approving the
internship before the actual start of the internship period. After the internship period is concluded,
he/she is also responsible for determining the grade to be assigned to the student for this period.

All students perform an internship related to the field of their study program.

Article 6
(Registration of internship course)

Students are required to register a relevant course for internship as prescribed in the curriculum of
the student’s study program, in the semester in which he/she is performing the actual internship.

If practical training/internship is performed over the period of two or more semesters, student has
to register the same course in each semester he/she performs internship.

Article 7
(Internship report)

Internship report should be written in English. The internship file should consist of:
Employer/Supervisor Internship Evaluation Form, Student Evaluation of Internship Experience along
with the five-page (5) summary report. A student intern is expected to provide a summary of

fie eetae -n nee Be Fa ann rt. ge at as aan ree ste nes iar
AX IVER S
WZ

rN
2

2;

04

sy

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

=

a
1

y
CAd

experiences that must reflect course learning outcomes. The report should include the following
information:

e Introduction describing how the internship originated and the reason for choosing this
internship position.

e Information about internship position and assignments and description of the organization.
e The intern’s opinion of whether the learning goals have been achieved.

e Critical reflection of the task(s) performed and the real-life experience gained.

All documents stated above must be handed in by the student to the Career Center. The deadline for
submission of this file is the last day of make-up examination period of the semester in which
internship is performed. The Career Center is responsible for delivering all student reports to the
relevant academic advisor.

Employer/Supervisor Internship Evaluation Form should be signed and stamped, if available, by the
responsible manager in the organization. The manager will initial the other pages of the report. All
internship documents will then be placed in an envelope which is sealed by the manager and given
to the student. If the responsible manager in organization cannot write in English, Career Center will
provide forms prepared in local language.

Article 8
(Final evaluation and grading)

Final responsibility for evaluating and grading student internship lies with the academic advisor.
Evaluation and grading is largely based on the internship report, but student performance during the
internship is also taken into account.

Internship is examined and evaluated as SUCCESSFUL/UNSUCCESSFUL. If the file for any internship
session is UNSUCCESSFUL, student will have to complete the missing components or repeat that
internship session as suggested by the academic advisor. After evaluating student internship file,
the academic advisor enters the grade into Student Information System; namely grade “S” if
internship is accepted, grade “U” if it is rejected, and grade “I” if it is incomplete. Students who
receive grade “S” for completed internship are awarded ECTS credits in accordance with the study
program curriculum.

After entering the grades into Student Information System, academic advisor must submit the grade
list with the final grade and earned credits to the Student Affairs Office. Student internship files
should be submitted to the Career Center for archiving purposes. Copy of grade list along with the
internship files will be also archived in the Career Center.

Article 9
(Finances and insurance)

Internship is considered as unpaid work and it is up to each organization to offer financial
compensation to any intern. Student may choose to perform an internship abroad. Any internship
abroad is subject to the same conditions, procedures and regulations as described above.

Each student is liable for all expenses related to an internship abroad. While performing his/her
internship abroad, each student must be insured for the duration of the internship. In case that

Aieceetebe canen te FaTA A see rel. ATI APT An. Fo... ATI ArT Ae

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
INTERNACIONALNI UNIVERZITET U SARAJEVU

organization does not offer insurance, it is the student’s responsibility to obtain adequate insurance.
Only in exceptional cases, US may provide help.

Article 10
(Final notes)

International University of Sarajevo expects each student to be familiar with and to observe the
norms and values that ensure academic integrity. If the University discovers a case of any violation
of integrity, it will be processed in accordance to IUS regulations.

With the adoption of this Practical Training/Internship Regulations, previous Procedures and Rules
for Work Placement/Internship No. IUS-SENATE 11-1512-1/2016 adopted on May 30, 2016 cease to
be in effect.

CONFIRMATION ON THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE BOOK OF RULES

A copy of this Book of Rules was posted on the notice board at International University of Sarajevo
on 2018 at o'clock;

GN 10> ‘i
Her ti2 bu piyersiay ef Sarajevo
o

FA t0- INF py Sy
A copy of this Book of Rules was published by posting it on the | i
website on 2018 at o'clock.

2

4\

=
Ss

=

S
\%

eA

2
&