ARTICULATION AGREEMENT/ CONVENTION FOR A
DOUBLE-DEGREE MBA
BETWEEN

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
- represented by Prof. Dr. Ahmet Yildirim
referred to below as IUS

AND

LUDWIGSHAFEN UNIVERSITY OF BUSINESS AND SOCIETY

- represented by Prof. Dr. Peter Mudra
referred to below as HWG LU

Introduction

We as IUS and as HWG LU offer a two year Master double-degree in International Business
Management (MBA) requiring business oriented and general education coursework. Respecting this
cooperation, students are offered to get the graduation in MBA Internationale Betriebswirtschaftslehre —
International Business Management (from Germany) and in Master of Business and Administration
(MBA) or Master in International Business (from Bosnia and Herzegovina).

Whereas, ([US and as HWG LU) offer options for acquiring a Double-degree based two (2) years of
Master in [International] Business Management (MBA) Degree Program including but not limited to
Scientific Work, Marketing, Logistics, Social Competency, Management, International Competency,
Human resources management, optional compulsory modules (two modules to choose out of Law,
Sociology, Managerial Finance and Macroeconomics) and Master’s thesis/ Colloquium.

The main principle of the agreement is that each program keeps its own autonomy in terms of student
selection and learning outcomes. The students firstly apply to one of the programs (either at [US or at
HWG LU). After they are accepted, they become eligible to apply to the other university with no
guarantee to be accepted. The committees at the respective university assess the candidates based on their
criteria and make the final decision on acceptance. If candidate is accepted, then the institution is obliged
to act in accordance to the agreement made between the institutions in terms of procedures and course
workload.

Now therefore, in consideration of the mutual covenants and the Agreement set forth herein, [US and
HWG LU hereby agree as follows:

International Initiatives and advising staff at HWG LU and IUS will work closely together and with
participating students to ensure that appropriate course work is completed and accepted upon transfer
to HWG LU. Students participating in the [US and HWG LU -MBA Pathway Program will enjoy
benefits that include:

A. Early identification of interest in and preparation for advance to the HWG LU MBA
Program;

Page 1 of 7
Mga

. Consistent, integrated academic consultation and support;
. Access to the HWG LU’s student activities and campus facilities;
. Smooth transition from IUS to the HWG LU;

Support for internship placements.

P Guideli

. HWG LU operates on rolling admissions (enrollment regulation as amended) and

students may apply anytime at their discretion however priority deadlines are
December 15" for summer semester and June 30" for winter semester.

. For TUS, students can apply anytime at their discretion however priority deadlines

are September 10" for Fall semester and January 15" for Spring semester. For
foreign students the deadlines are going to be earlier due to visa requriements.

. After being enrolled at IUS, students are provided an opportunity to apply for HWG

LU.

. If accepted, students are becoming participants of this agreement, and will be granted

enrollment into the HWG LU MBA PROGRAM after completing all relevant [US and
HWG LU requirements tenure and study under the special exam regulation as
amended in the then current version. (Spezielle Priifungsordnung fiir den
weiterbildenden MBA-Fernstudiengang Internationale Betriebswirtschaftslehre der
Hochschule Ludwigshafen am Rhein).

. The students are enrolled for the semester 3 and 4 at HWG LU directly to the MBA

Program for 2 semesters.

HWG LU will enable that the attendance days / lectures required for this are
concentrated online via webinar. Additional lectures, when required, will be organized
in a relatively short period and in blocked courses (2 - 3 weeks, so that the stay in
Germany does not lead to unnecessary additional costs for the incoming students).

. Due to the same reasons, the performance records / examination could than, be took

place either in Ludwigshafen or Sarajevo (optional).

. For the 4th semester, the thesis is planned, the support would be possible using

modern media, without the requirement for the students to travel to Ludwigshafen
during this time, but they would have to be enrolled at the HWG LU.

Tutorial notes - All tutorial notes are available, the translation in English is done by
HWG LU.

The following requirements for studying the corresponding MBA course in HWG LU
have to:

a) Approved bachelor's degree

b) Professional /occupational Experience: It is internationally common that between a
Bachelor's degree and enrollment in the MBA at least one year of professional activity
is needed. We might also agree that this can also take place during year 1 studying in
Sarajevo. Cumulative work or internship experiences can be accepted, too.

c) Language: English-language skills at the B2 level or higher according to the
Common European Framework of References for Languages (CEFR), or a comparable
officially recognized certificate. At HWG LU the language of instruction is English
according to the examination regulations, which is recognized as an access
requirement for English. All courses will be hold in English. Further certificates
should all be in English and will be prepared in English.

. It would be possible (optional) that lecturer from Ludwigshafen will teach during year

2 in Sarajevo. In the same way, it is also possible that lectures from Sarajevo teach in
Ludwigshafen (year 2). This can be handed from both sites in a flexible way if
requested from one of the cooperation partners.

Page 2 of 7
li

Time schedule and implementation

The study program will be implemented without delay in the autumn of 2020. Because this
is simply the transfer of a German course of study into an identical English course, which
is then without problems available to the students from IUS, no further contractual
regulations (which go beyond the existing cooperation agreement) are required.

. Payment regulation

Students pay for semester | and 2 the regular fee for the MBA or MA in International
Business to IUS.

Students pay for semester 3 and 4 the regular semester and student fee for the MBA
Internationale Betriebswirtschaftslehre — International Business Management program to
HWG LU.

The detailed curricula are presented in Appendices 1 and 2.

ILL. Institutional Commitments

A.

BwWN

wn

The responsibilities of the IUS are to:

Designate an International Coordinator, who represents IUS, to serve as the point of
contact for students interested in, and admitted to, the HWG LU;

Publicize the availability of the Agreement;

Counsel and/or advise IUS students interested in attending HWG LU

Designate personnel to work with staff at the HWG LU to implement an effective
communication plan to interested students and

Work with the HWG LU staff/faculty to coordinate information sessions for prospective
students.

The Responsibilities of the HWG LU are to:

Designate the acting International Partnerships and Initiatives Coordinator, who
represents HWG LU, to serve as the point of contact for students interested in, and
admitted to, the HWG LU;

Process an application for IUS students interested in the MBA-Program;

Ensure that the HWG LU faculty advisor and staff provide planned advisement sessions;
and

Work with IUS personnel to coordinate information sessions for prospective students.

TV. Duration of Contract

This agreement shall become effective upon the date of signatures and shall continue in effect for
the duration of four years. Thereafter, the term of this agreement shall automatically renew for
successive one year periods unless either party provides prior written notice to the other party of its
desire not to renew the term hereof, which notice must be given at least 60 days prior to the then current
term of this agreement.

The agreed period of notice between IUS and HWG LU is 12 months.
The HWG LU ensures that already enrolled students at the HWG LU can finish the program.

Page 3 of 7
Vv. Final clause

Any requests arising from the implementation of the Agreement but not covered by the same, will be
subject to the mutual consent and settled amicably through negotiations between the partner institutions.

Changes to the contract can only be made in written form.

Should any provision of this Agreement be or become invalid or void, in whole or in part, or be or
become invalid or void as a result of a change in law or otherwise, or should this Agreement be
incomplete, the parties agree that the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force
and effect. In this case, the parties agree to replace the invalid provision with a valid provision which
comes as close as possible to the meaning and purpose of the invalid provision and which can be
assumed to have been agreed by the parties at the time the contract was concluded if they had known or
foreseen the invalidity or nullity. The same shall apply if this contract should contain a gap

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly
authorized representatives as of the date of signatures below,

Prof. Dr. Ahmet Yildirim Prof. Dr. Peter Mudra
Rector President
International University of Sarajevo Ludwigshafen University of

Business and Societ

Date: VY-06. 2oLe Date:
Signature: Signature:

of Business and Society
University of Applied Sciences

\
INTERNATIONAL UNIVE ;

X

il I Ludwigshafen\University

AY 0 om

\6 ee
MCREC C4 A006 /ro \e i i"

Page 4 of 7

Appendix 1: Master of Business and Administration at [US and International Business Management
(MBA) at HWG LU — The pathway

Year 1
IUS Courses with equivalency at HWG LU (Semester | and 2)
Table 1: Curriculum

At IUS At HWG LU
MBASOL Financial and Managerial Accounting 6 5.2 Controlling
MBAS21 Management and Organization 6 7.3 Organization
MBAS41 Marketing Management 6 | 2.1 Marketing as a market-oriented management
MBAS1I1 Financial Management 6 8.3 Managerial Finance I
MBA526 i mine Management and Business ls [5 Strategic management j
MBAS81 | Advanced Business Research Methods inte jndilcaResearsi P
MBAS** Elective I 6 Table 2 2-6
MBAS** Elective II 6 Table 2 2-6
MBAS92 MBA Graduation Project 12 TUS Requirement 0

Total (IUS Degree) 60 Total for transfer 22-32
Table 2: Elective Courses

At IUS At Ludwigshafen

MBAS524 Advanced Human Resources ;
Management 6 7.1 International Human resources management | __6

7.2 Psychology of Work and Organizational
Behaviour 2

4.1 Philosophy (ethics)

MBAS522 Advanced Organizational Behavior

MBA528 Advanced Business Ethics and CSR
MBAS553 Macroeconomic Policies and Business
ECONS03 | Macroeconomics

8.4 Macroeconomics 2

DID ID [DBD Ia

IBF502 International Financial Environment

Year 2
HWG LU (Semester 3 and 4)

Table 3: Curriculum
2.2 International marketing 6.1 International market research 2

2
3.1 Manufacturing logistics 2 6.2 International corporate management 2
3.2 Distribution logistics 3 6.3 Cross-cultural communication 2
4.2 Rhetoric 4 Transfer From IUS 26-31
4.3 Creativity | 4 2 Courses - Electives not taken at IUS (Table 2) 4-9
5.3 Business simulation 4 9 Master’s thesis/ Colloquium 30
Total (Ludwigshafen Degree) 90

Page 5 of 7
Appendix 2: Master of Arts in International Business at [US and International Business Management
(MBA) at HWG LU — The pathway

Year 1

IUS Courses with equivalency at HWG LU (Semester | and 2)
Table 1: Curriculum

At IUS At HWG LU
Gore Course name
IBF502 International Financial Environment 6 8.3 Managerial Finance 2
IBF503 Intemational Business Hovironment é 2.2 International marketing 6
IBF507 Managing the Multinational Enterprise 6 2.1 Marketing as a market-oriented management 6
MBAS21 Management and Organization 6 7.3 Organization “| 2
MBAS526 Strategic Management and Business
Policy 6 5.1 Strategic management 4
1.1 Theory of Science and 1.2 Research
IBF581 Advanced Business Research Methods methodology 2
MBAS** _| Elective | Table 2 2-6
MBAS** Elective II Table 2 2-6
MBAS592 MBA Graduation Project 12 IUS Requirement 0
Total (US Degree) 60 Total for transfer 26-31
Table 2: Elective Courses
At IUS At Ludwigshafen
MBAS524 Advanced Human Resources ;
Management 6 7.1 International Human resources management 6
MBA522 Advanced Organizational Behavior 1a Psychology of Work and Organizational
6 Behaviour 2
MBA528 Advanced Business Ethics and CSR 6 4.1 Philosophy (ethics) 3 |
MBASS53 Macroeconomic Policies and Business 6 .
7 8.4 Macroeconomics 2
ECONS03 Macroeconomics 6
Year 2

HWG LU (Semester 3 and 4)
Table 3: Curriculum

3.1 Manufacturing logistics 2 6.1 International market research 2
3.2 Distribution logistics 2 6.2 International corporate management 2
4.2 Rhetoric 3 6.3 Cross-cultural communication 2
4.3 Creativity 4 Transfer From [US 26-31
5.2 Controlling 4 2 Courses - Electives not taken at IUS (Table 2) 4-9
5.3 Business simulation [4 9 Master’s thesis/ Colloquium 30
Total (Ludwigshafen Degree) 90

Page 6 of 7