INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

No: IUS SENAT-11-3324/14

RULES OF PROCEDURE

OF THE
COMMITTEE FOR MONITORING STUDY PROGRAMS
(Curriculum Committee)
AT THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

November, 2014
Pursuant to Article 119 of the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of Canton Sarajevo",
no 42/13) and Article 43 of the Statute of the Internationa’ University of Sarajevo, no IUS-
SENAT-11-2255/13 dated on 12.09.2013, the Senate of the International University of
Sarajevo, on its 44" session held on November 17" 2014, adopts the following

RULES OF PROCEDURE
OF COMMITTEE FOR MONITORING STUDY PROGRAMS
(Curriculum Comunittee)
AT THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO

Article 1

These Rules regulate the appointment procedures and work of the Committee for monitoring of
study programs at the organizational units of the International University of Sarajevo.

Article 2
(1) Committee for monitoring of the study programs at the organizational units of the
International University of Sarajevo - Curriculum Committee (hereinafter: Committee), is
body responsible for evaluation of new and revised curricula for all cycles of studies of
organizational units of the International University of Sarajevo (hereinafter: [US).
(2) The Committee has special consultative role at IUS.
Article 3

(1) Number of the Committee members will be determined by Rector’s decision.

(2) Committee members shall be selected among the academic staff of the University by a
Rector’s decision.

(3) Composition change and dismissal of Curricula Committee members can be brought by
Rector’s decision.

(4) Members of the Committee are required to submit in written the consent to membership in
the Committee within five (5) days of Rector’s decision on the appointment of the
Comunittee.

(5) Membership in the Committee does not affect the current academic - administrative duties
from the existing employment contracts and will be treated as honorable assignment.

(6) Members will prove their consent by putting the signature on the back of the decision on
the appointment.
Article 4

(1) If necessary, the Chair of the Committee who is appointed by Rector shall convene the
Committee meeting to audit the curriculum at least twice before beginning of each
semester.

(2) The Committee makes decisions on matters within its competence by majority votes.

(3) The Committee will consider official requests and inquiries without any delay and respond
on them as soon as possible.
(4) The Committee is obliged to report to Rector.
Article 5
The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee are determined as follows:

a) to work in accordance with the procedures defined by “The Book of Rules on monitoring
study programs”;

b) to revise and evaluate proposals of new curricula;

c) to analyze courses syllabi;

d) to propose members of academic staff who will teach university courses;

e) to analyze, asses and determine proposals for the introduction of new and elimination of
existing courses;

f) to participate in the revision of curricula and its accreditation;

g) to revise and propose changes of general education conditions and obtaining of diplomas
in all three study cycles;

h) to revise proposals for new courses in order to harmonize them with upcoming
requirements;

i) to propose procedures and policies that affect the curriculum plans and programs,

j) to submit Reports on study programs to Rector and

k) to do other tasks as determined by Rector.

Article 6

If a committee member is absent from three consecutive meetings without excuse, its
membership ceases and new member of the Committee shall be selected.

Article 7

(1) In case of any vacancy in the Committee, the Chair of the Committee may notify Rector
fifteen (15) days from the date of knowledge, at the latest.

(2) Rector decides on the appointment of new members within seven (7) days and notifies the
Chair of the Committec.
Article 8

(1) Amendments to these Rules shall be made in the manner and procedure of its adoption, on
the proposal of the Senate or the Rector.

(2) By this Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure no, IUS SENAT-11-1581-1/13 will be
put out of force.
Article 9

This Rules of Procedure becomes effective as of the day when it was adopted.

Delivered to:

1 x IUS Senate

1 x Curricula Committee
lxa/a