INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SARAJEVO
Number: IUS-REC-01- 827-1 /19

Sarajevo, 27.03.2019.

IUS Policy and Procedure on Sexual Harassment
INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARAIEVO

1US Policy and Procedure on Sexual Harassment

l Introduction

IUS Policy and Procedure on Sexual Harassment (hereinafter Policy) highlights IUS commitment to
provide a supportive and inclusive learning, working, and social organizational culture in which all
members of the |US community can realize their potential and are treated with dignity and respect. IUS
is strongly committed to creating and maintaining community dedicated to the advancement,
application and transmission of knowledge and creative endeavours through academic excellence in an
organizational culture free of harassment, intimidation, or exploitation.

i. IUSis strongly against any form of sexual harassment and it requires from all its members,
visitors, and other stakeholders to treat each other with respect and dignity.

2s This Policy reflects several important aims of the University:
a. Promotion of a positive environment in which people are treated equally and with respect;

b. Clear statement that sexual harassmentis unacceptable and that all members of the IUS
communityare important players in a creation of positive organizational culture that is oriented
toward principles of equal opportunities;

c. A framework of support for staff and students who feel they have been subject to sexual

harassment; and
d. A mechanism by which these complaints can be addressed in a timely way.

The policy requires that positions of authority (Rector, vice-rectors, deans, head of departments,
program coordinators, secretary General, and managers of administrative units) are expected to
familiarize themselves with the Policy. Persons listed in previous paragraph are formally responsible for
implementation and monitoring for possible breaches of the rules at their workplace. Finally, they are
responsible to investigate promptly and effectively and to take further steps in solving such issues.

All members of the University community are personally responsible for complying with this Policy by:
a. Treating others with dignity and respect.

b. Discouraging any form of sexual harassment by making it clear that such behaviour is

unacceptable.

c. Supporting any member of the IUS who feels he/she has been subject to sexual harassment,
including supporting them to make a formal complaint if appropriate.

INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO.

ii Definitions

The academic freedom at the University is the right of any member of the academic staff or students to
have freedom of opinion, to express it and act in respect to delivering lessons, expressing scientific
hypotheses or scientific facts, without fear of sanctions, under condition that their academic activities
are performed in accordance with the Constitution and law, which do not jeopardize human rights and
freedoms of other subjects of the academic or local community as a whole. [1]

Sexual Harassment has been defined in the Law on Gender Equality in BIH as “any unwanted gender-
based behaviour that intends to violate the dignity of a person or group of people or which produces
such effects, especially if such behaviour creates a scary, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive

environment”. [2] [Appendix 1& 2]

Furthermore, the Law on Gender Equality in BiH prescribes that “Gender-based violence is any action
that inflicts or that may cause physical, psychological, sexual or economic harm or suffering, as well as a
threat by such actions which impedes the person or group of persons to freely exercise their human
rights and freedoms in the public and private sphere of life”. [2]

II Guidelines for Staff and Students

IUS commits to provide prompt and full support to all members who experience sexual harassment at
work in order to resolve particular issue expeditiously and professionally.

Those who experience sexual harassment or any other above mentioned behaviours, are provided with
two ways to deal with it: informal and formal.

Informal approach requires that offended party directly communicate to the offender about things that
bother him/her. Since |US workplace environment consists of people (staff and students) from different
parts of the world, some misunderstanding can result due to the fact that different cultures interpret
the samebehaviours differently. Therefore, the fact that somebody is feeling as being harassed has to be
stated explicitly (verbally or by written communication tools, or by asking a third party to help you) and
that suchbehaviour is objectionable to you. The goal of this approach is that even if the other person
intended to act in an unacceptable way, a swift and clear statement objecting to such behaviour may be

enough to put a stop to the problem.

1US member who has been approached informally by a complainant is expected to respond sensitively
and reasonably to the complainant in a way of respecting and accepting a complaint’s initiative to deal

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO.

with an issue. Informal approach should be done entirely on a confidential basis and both parties are
encouraged to listen to each other and to try to find the best possible solution. If parties are not willing
or not capable to find an agreement, a complainant should proceed with a formal complaint.

If informal approach does not solve a problem or offended party does not see that informal approach
would help, offended party needs to submit formal complaint [Appendix 3]. Offended party is under no
obligation to pursue informal approach before resorting to formal complaint.

A formal complaint has to include several important details, such as: description of incident(s), date(s),

time(s), and witnesses if there are any.

A formal complaintwill be processed in accordance to regular IUS disciplinary procedures that may
include investigation, testimonies, and examination of evidences provided. Serious case of harassment is
stipulated as gross misconduct in IUS regulations and as such and may lead to dismissal (termination of
contract for staff, or expulsion from the IUS for students).

IUS adopts policy by which, it may not be considered appropriate for the harasser and complainant to
continue working in the same area. This policy is implemented in a way so that wherever possible, the
IUS will redeploy the harasser rather than the complainant, unless it has been shown that “harasser” has
been accused based on a false information.

Iv Confidentiality, Retaliation, and Malicious and False Accusations

All records and discussions related to any complaint which is of sexual harassment nature will be kept
confidential. Furthermore, no employee, applicant for employment, student, or member of the public
shall be subject to restraints, interference, coercion or reprisal for the action of seeking advice
concerning a sexual harassment matter, to file a sexual harassment grievance, or to serve as a witness or
a panel member in the investigation of a sexual harassment grievance. Acts showing retaliation are a
violation of this policy and will be investigated and adjudicated accordingly.

It is important to notice that complainants have their responsibility as well. |US recognizes the possibility
that complaints may be brought with mischievous or malicious intent and this may provide grounds for
disciplinary action against individuals forfiling such complaint.

All reasonable steps will be taken to ensure that all enquiries and complaints are dealt with in
confidence. Accusations of harassment are potentially defamatory and could provide grounds for
possible legal action; it is therefore essential that complainants as well as recipients of complaints

observe strict confidentiality.

Vv Contact Person

Equality Officer

INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SaRATEvO

Tbd

Upon receiving the Misconduct report form, the Equality Officer will consider it in front of the
committee that is comprised of:

- Equality Officer
- Ethical Committee
- Representative of Psychology Counseling Centre

REFERENCES
{1] —1US Statute Article 20
[2] — Law on gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina

[3] — Law on Higher Education of Canton Sarajevo

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO.

Appendix 1

: Sexual harassr

notlimited to:

e Unwelcome sexual invitations orrequests

e Offering favours of employment benefits such as promotion, favourable
performance evaluation, favourable assigned duties or shifts,
recommendations, reclassifications, etc., in exchange for sexualfavours

e Repeated requests for dates or contactinformation

e Verbal abuse or threats of a sexualnature

e Sexually suggestive comments, jokes orinnuendos

e Stalking —

e Leering, ogling or other gestures with suggestiveovertones

e Unwelcome touching andgroping

e Visual displays of sexual images perceived to be degrading oroffensive
e Acts of vengeance motivated by rejected sexualattentions

e Observing, photographing, videotaping or other recording of sexual activity or
nudity without the knowledge and consent of allparties

e¢ Demanding sexual favours accompanied by implied or overt threats concerning
one's job, grades, or letters ofrecommendation

Appendix 2

Verbal

Referring to an adult as a girl, hunk,
doll, babe, or honey

Whistling at someone, cat calls
Making sexual comments
about a person'sbody

Making sexual comments about a

person's clothing, anatomy, or
looks

Repeatedly asking out a
person who is notinterested

Telling sexual jokes or stories

Asking about sexual _ life,
fantasies, orhistory

Making kissing sounds,
howling, and smackinglips

Making sexual comments or
innuendos

Turning work discussions to sexual
topics

Telling lies or spreading rumors
about a person's personal sex life

TUS’

INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARAIEVO.

Non-verbal

Looking a person up and
down (Elevator eyes)

Staring at someone
Blocking a person's path

Following the person

Giving personal gifts

Displaying sexually
suggestive visuals

Making sexual gestures
with hands or through
body movements

Making facial expressions
such as winking, throwing
kisses, or licking lips

Physical

Giving a massage around the neck or
shoulders

Touching the person's clothing,
hair, orbody

Hugging, kissing, patting, or stroking

Touching or rubbing oneself sexually
around another person

Standing close or brushing up against
another person
UNIVERSITY OF SARAIEVO

Purposely calling someoneby the
wrong or non-preferred pronoun
(he/she, him/her)
Source: Kadir Has

Appendix 3: Misconduct Report Form
International University of Sarajevo

Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

Directions: If you believe that you have been unlawfully harassed/ discriminated against, please
fill out this form and return it to the Human Resource Office. If more space is necessary, please

continue your comments on the back of this form.

Name: Date of Complaint: /_ /

Faculty/Department: Job Title:

Individual(s) who allegedly committed harassment/discrimination:

1. Describe the nature of your complaint. Include dates and as much detail as possible.

INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARAIEVO

Identify all employees/students/or others with knowledge of the conduct about which you

are complaining:

Did employees/students/or others listed on the previous page personally observe or
overhear the alleged conduct? If yes, please indicate the dates of observed/overheard

behaviour.

Are there documents or emails which contain information supporting the occurrences

described above?

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO.

Is there any physical evidence that supports your complaint? If so, please describe or

attach a copy.

Have you received any counselling or received medical treatment as a result of this

alleged harassment? If yes, indicate dates of counselling/treatment.

Have you previously complained about this or related acts of sexual
harassment/discrimination to a University supervisor or official? If so, please identify the
individual to whom you complained, the date of the complaint and the resolution of your

complaint.

INTERNATIONAL

UNIVERSITY OF SARATEVO

What is your requested remedy in this complaint?

Are there any other individuals you want the University to contact regarding your

complaint? If so, who do you wish contacted and why?

Acknowledgment

To investigate your complaint, it will be necessary to interview you, the alleged
harasser(s), and any witnesses with knowledge of the allegations or defences. The
University will notify all persons involved in the investigation that it is confidential and
that unauthorized disclosures of information concerning the investigation could result
in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

The information provided in this complaint is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I am willing to cooperate fully in the investigation of my complaint and
provide whatever evidence the University deems relevant.

Signature